# m3api-oauth2

m3api-oauth2 is an extension package for [m3api][],
making it easy to make requests authenticated via [OAuth 2.0][OAuth].

## Usage

Create an OAuth client containing your credentials (e.g. loaded from the process environment),
and attach it to an m3api session in the request options:

```js
import Session from 'm3api/node.js';
import { OAuthClient, initOAuthSession, completeOAuthSession } from 'm3api-oauth2';

const session = new Session( 'en.wikipedia.org', {}, {
	userAgent: 'm3api-oauth2-README-example',
	'm3api-oauth2/client': new OAuthClient(
		process.env.OAUTH_CLIENT_ID,
		process.env.OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET,
	),
} );
```

Initialize the m3api session as an OAuth session,
and generate the authorization URL for the user:

```js
console.log( await initOAuthSession( session ) );
```

Send the user to that URL (e.g. via a redirect from your application).
When they choose to authorize your app, they will be redirected back to you;
use that URL to finish setting up the OAuth session:

```js
await completeOAuthSession( session, callbackUrl );
```

(The `callbackUrl` should look like the URL you registered the OAuth client with,
plus a `?code` parameter generated by MediaWiki.)

Now you should be able to make requests using the OAuth session:

```js
console.log( await session.request( {
	action: 'query',
	meta: 'userinfo',
} ) );
```

This example assumes that you can keep the original `session` instance alive,
which may be true for a CLI utility, but probably not a web-based application.
You can serialize the OAuth session and store the result in the user session,
saved in some kind of session store:

```js
const serialization = serializeOAuthSession( session );
// store serialization (or JSON.stringify( serialization )) somewhere
// ...next request...
// get serialization from somewhere (possibly via JSON.parse())
deserializeOAuthSession( session, serialization );
```

Note that you shouldn’t make the serialization directly available to the user
(e.g., you shouldn’t put it directly in a cookie),
since that would allow the user to extract the access token and impersonate your application.
Use a session store instead, e.g. based on Redis if you’re on Wikimedia Toolforge.

The access tokens generated by MediaWiki are usually valid for four hours.
If you need to use the session for longer than that, you will need to refresh it:

```js
await refreshOAuthSession( session );
```

A future version will hopefully arrange for this to be done automatically.

## Terminology

There are several different kinds of “session” relevant to this package;
the documentation tries to use the following terms consistently:

<dl>
<dt>m3api session</dt>
<dd>

An instance of the m3api `Session` class.
Can be used to make API requests.

</dd>
<dt>OAuth session</dt>
<dd>

An m3api session that has been enhanced by this package.
Any requests it makes (using the usual m3api methods, `request()` etc.)
are authenticated using OAuth.
A non-OAuth m3api session is transformed into an OAuth session
using either `initOAuthSession()` (from scratch)
or `deserializeOAuthSession()` (based on an existing serialization).

</dd>
<dt>user session</dt>
<dd>

Some kind of data store associated with the user of your application,
usually provided by the web framework you use (e.g. [express-session][]).
You would use this to store the serialization of the session (`serializeOAuthSession()`),
as well as any other data you like.

</dd>
</dl>

## Limitations

Non-confidential clients (using PKCE) are not yet supported.
A client secret is required.

Sessions aren’t refreshed automatically yet,
you need to call `refreshOAuthSession( session )` manually.

## Compatibility

m3api-oauth2 is *not* compatible with all platforms supported by m3api;
specifically, it additionaly requires support for dynamic imports
(which most browsers supported a handful of releases later than the static imports required by m3api)
and the Web Crypto API methods `crypto.getRandomValues()` and `crypto.subtle.digest()`
(available in all m3api-supported browsers, but in Node only since version 16).

## License

Published under the [ISC License][].
By contributing to this software,
you agree to publish your contribution under the same license.

[m3api]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/m3api
[OAuth]: https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/Help:OAuth
[express-session]: https://expressjs.com/en/resources/middleware/session.html
[ISC License]: https://spdx.org/licenses/ISC.html
